well good afternoon everybody welcome
session 719 QuickTime Pro in your
workflow
I'm Amy Nugent product manager from
Apple for the core media technologies
and I'm here to welcome you today to a
session by francesco steve on we're very
lucky to have him he's been involved
with Quicktime both professionally and
as an educator for more years and i
think he would prefer I don't reveal how
everyone please extend a warm welcome to
Francesco and we'll have a great session
and do Q&A at the end thank you very
much good afternoon everyone first of
all let me get used to the microphone so
so that's the first thing it's going to
take you a couple of minutes to do that
but what we're going to do today or my
plan for the session is to raise
awareness that QuickTime is involved in
most of the multimedia productions that
you might be doing or other people might
be doing sometimes it's under the under
the hood and people don't know about
that but in most cases that that's what
happens another thing that I want to
cover is is what you can do with
QuickTime Pro that you could do another
software but you don't necessarily need
to do it in that software an example is
having to go to Final Cut Pro to edit or
to put together a series of slides or a
series of images you could do that with
QuickTime Pro without having to wait for
the long boot Final Cut Pro oh I mean of
a QuickTime Pro Final Cut Pro sorry
about that and in some cases QuickTime
Pro is actually faster to use than than
those applications on just the example
of booting up Final Cut opposite to the
player so what you will be learning in
this session is what is QuickTime Pro
how and when you may want to use
QuickTime Pro instead of other
applications and how it's also involved
in the typical workflow which goes from
acquisition editing authoring and
explaining the medium so QuickTime is
involved in all of those cases and I
have a few tips and tricks here and
there
that do relate to the workflow so
because it's workflow my topic is my
topics are going to be jumping all over
the planes from editing to or rather
from acquiring to editing authoring and
deployment and therefore I'm going to be
using a number of applications final cut
a lot of it with QuickTime Player and so
forth so I'm going to be jumping back
and forward between applications so this
light represents the Final Cut Pro not
Final Cut Pro QuickTime Pro is involved
in the whole process from the
acquisition to the deployment this slide
originally came when OS 10 was was
released or announced actually and one
of the important things that I want to
point here is that QuickTime is at right
on top of Darwin which means that it's
very very close to the OS and relatively
apart from the applications and the
reason why I'm saying this is because
think of QuickTime as a big engine that
a number of applications can get access
to so so keep that in mind in terms of
QuickTime what is QuickTime Pro
QuickTime Pro it's not just a player
you've get you've gotten a number of
description about what QuickTime is and
what QuickTime Pro is but one of the
things that it does is unlocks the
professional as they call it
capabilities of the QuickTime Player and
the QuickTime plug-in as well as preview
so so how many people knew that preview
was what part of QuickTime Pro usually
not many people know that but once you
get a license for QuickTime Pro you can
actually do exporting out of preview for
the most part is not that useful there
is one feature which is to export what
they call a QuickTime image file and and
you can do that with a QuickTime Pro or
with previewing QuickTime Pro now in
terms of of the workflow on in terms of
acquiring assets as you should know by
now and if you don't I'm telling you
right now QuickTime has a really wide
gamut of file formats that that it can
import over 200 media
which means that you could be bringing
in flash or JPEGs or tip files or pic
files text video of course even a vis
and so forth so in terms of the
acquiring process it's not only the
acquisition of digitizing video but also
bringing in existing files like that
that that you may have so so how is
QuickTime Pro involved or how is
quicktime involved and I have this other
slide which which has a better
representation how all of the
applications get access to the engine
the QuickTime engine that is under the
OS and I think at this moment I'd like
to switch over to my machine over here
and what I'm going to do here is I have
my eyesight running here and I've got
this a really simple application that I
download from the developer site at
Apple and if everything works alright oh
ok this is working for you did
application what it does it just gets
access to the digitizer in QuickTime and
the reason why I'm showing you this guys
is because it's a very simple
application that gets access to that
that layer that QuickTime later that I
show you earlier and and it's QuickTime
the one that should be doing the
digitize now in this case I'm seeing not
to be having too much luck here so I'm
going to quit that and I'm going to ask
you guys to switch over to this lights
piece ok so what I was trying to show
you here is it was that the application
was getting access to the QuickTime
engine to the rendering or actually
within the country in the acquisition of
the assets but this is another example
that I really like to show in terms of
bringing media or how QuickTime gets to
acquire media that doesn't necessarily
need to be video so has anybody tried
opening a PDF file for example with a
QuickTime Player well that's something
that you can do and the important thing
that I want to stress here is that it is
QuickTime the one that is doing the
opening of a PDF file so if I could
switch back to the demo machine clicks
thank you now what I have here this is
Final Cut Pro I've got a timeline there
with two DV files but rather what I want
to do is I have another PDF file on the
hard drive this is the developer
documentation for QuickTime 6 on a PDF
document and as you can see it has a
number of number of pages
it's a documentation for QuickTime 6 on
a PDF but one of the things that you
could do you can actually drag and drop
the PDF file into Final Cut Pro and now
you have a PDF in Final Cut Pro I'm not
exactly sure what you want to do that
there may be some cases where you
actually have sources coming from a PDF
file that actually has a number of pages
but again this is what I want to do here
is is from the acquisition point of view
I'm acquiring a PDF
out into the Final Cut Pro application
and I can dump it into my timeline
that's a little bit wide just zoom back
from here oops so now as you can see I
have a PDF document inside my my
timeline so can I switch back to the
slides please this is what I was trying
to do with with acquiring video from
hack TV activies a free application that
you developers can download from Apple
it's meant for developers as an example
of code how they can integrate the
digitizing capabilities of QuickTime
into their applications I'm not a
programmer rather I'm a content creator
and for content creators if you guys
want to try that application you can
download it it's really tiny and for
example plugging your eyesight or
another video camera or if you have a
digitizing board you can use that to
capture content with with QuickTime now
in terms of acquiring assets I had
mentioned the idea of bringing in a
series of images and what I'm going to
do here is I'm going to import a series
of images that we're taking from a still
camera so this is not video it's rather
taking from from a still camera so I'm
going to ask if I can switch back to the
demo machine thank you very much and
import medium so I have here a number of
pictures where we're taking outside of
my window in Vancouver and if you can
look at which is one of the pictures and
let's see the actual science it's a
really large image and this is a typical
time sequence or timeline sequence that
was shot I think every two minutes the
pictures were taking so
what I'm going to do in this case is I'm
going to make a series or rather a
time-lapse movie with a quicktime player
if you wanted to do this in Final Cut
Pro you could bring all of the images
into Final Cut Pro change you have to go
into Final Cut Pro preferences change
the settings for how long you want
individual images to be or still images
to be and then lay your images onto the
timeline in this case the process is
going to be slightly different back in
the QuickTime Player there's this option
in the front of the file pulldown minute
says open image sequence and the idea
here is just to select the first image
in the sequence and have all of them
sequentially named so in this case is
capture 0 0 91 92 and so forth all the
way to 165 so I'm only selecting the
first image and Final Cut Pro is asking
me what frame rate I want now I could go
for the typical frame rate of video
which would be roughly 30 frames per
second but instead if I do that I'm
going to have a really really short
movie that is going to play really
really fast so instead of doing that
rather what I'm going to do is I'm going
to switch to 6 frames per second and and
have that movie a little bit longer so
each frame stays just a little bit
longer on the screen so off it goes and
as you can see it's a huge huge huge
image maybe the easiest way to do this
is to try to resize so in this case I
was able to acquire by my series of
images into a linear QuickTime movie
it's really large and we just bring it
to half size which barely fits on the
screen here and if I play it as you can
see it's it's the two series of of
images
so there you go that's a nice day in
Vancouver one of those days are being
arranged so you have to take pictures of
a that doesn't rain in Vancouver really
any Canadians by the way in the audience
right on well happy kind of the day all
right
in terms of a brief tip that I have for
you guys when when you're acquiring
content from Final Cut Pro or with Final
Cut Pro is as you guys know when you're
shooting your content before you shoot
you should have your viewer videotapes
Striped which means having timecode laid
onto them onto the videotape so when you
start shooting you don't have a broken
timecode so if I can switch back to the
slides please so a little tip that I
have for you guys when you're working
with Final Cut Pro or rather if you have
Final Cut Pro to stripe your tapes you
just use this little feature in the Edit
to tape option under Final Cut Pro by
pressing on that little tiny black
button what it would do is would print
black frames onto the whole tape and
will actually lay down a timecode track
onto onto the tape so when you go
shooting with that tape don't get broken
timecode and this is very important when
you get into the acquisition process and
when you go on and capture your your
content into Final Cut Pro that way you
won't have problems with with broken
timecode so that's it for that position
content now I'm going to talk about the
editing process in front of weathering
in the QuickTime Player and instead of
doing the typical thing of actually
showing you how to copy and paste frames
and fast-forward or go frame by frame in
the QuickTime Player rather I'm going to
refer you to the help system in
QuickTime Player another thing that I
see actually Lynda Weinman here so I can
always refer you to her book on
QuickTime so which which talks about up
anything with with QuickTime Player but
rather what I want to focus
is the concept of reference movies one
of the things that is great with
Quicktime that sometimes is
misunderstood is that QuickTime can work
with what is called reference movies
which means that the media doesn't
necessarily need to be duplicated onto
the drive you can actually have it
written only once onto the drive so it
would be an example of what you can do
the idea of reference movies is that you
can have the media written only once
onto onto the hard drive and depending
on where it comes from you can actually
take that same year to different
applications without having to rerender
the media or without having to duplicate
the media and the hard drive so if I can
switch back to to the slides
come into the demo machine clicks thank
you so what I have here is a movie that
it's actually made out of I don't know
how many images were wearing my folder
but it's a series of images and when I
play it it's actually making a reference
to each one of those files onto the hard
drive so a typical process would be to
actually save or export this movie as a
self-contained which by doing that would
actually duplicate the media and the
hard drive it would keep my original
images and then make a new copy of this
large movie but rather one of the things
that I can do now is save this document
just click on save without options save
normally I'm going to save it to the
desktop so I can find it reference
moving very moving and movie and in this
case what it's doing or what it did and
just go back to the finder here really
quickly it made this document but if you
take a look at the file size it's really
really tiny only 44k on on disk and the
reason for that is because the file
itself is actually making a reference to
each one of them of the documents of the
QuickTime movies
sure
all right so I sound different
do I sound older I sound louder I think
okay so what I was trying to show you
here is is the reference that this
document is actually making to all of my
picture files elsewhere on the harddrive
and as you can see here in the QuickTime
or rather in the movie properties window
I can see all of the files are actually
being referenced from this original
document now the whole idea of this
doing this in terms of a workflow is I
don't need to duplicate or I don't need
to make a new really large file to be
able to take it for example what I had
in my slide before into compressor into
After Effects or into anything else what
I can do is I can take this reference
movie into compressor and use that as my
source instead of having to render
having to save as a new copy of the
document onto the hard drive so if I can
switch back to the lights please
so this is what I just did in this case
I say what what QuickTime calls save is
not safe normally or as normally which
means making those those reference files
now another thing that you can do or to
put it more in typical cases with Final
Cut Pro is doing the exact same process
that I did but rather with Final Cut Pro
so if I can switch back to the demo
machine this is my Final Cut Pro
timeline and I have let me get rid of
the PDF and zoom into my timeline so
it's actually a bit more interesting so
what I have here is two two DV files
some titles
and let's say that we want to compress
those things so that we want to let
maybe take them to after-effects or
maybe take them to another application
on the same machine for compression
maybe squeeze if you want to if you want
to use squeeze for for the lever on the
web I'm going to do a reference moving
out of Final Cut Pro in this case and
the process would be to go into the
export option select QuickTime movie
which they change the wording in in in
Final Cut Pro for get rid of all of that
noise and this is how you make a
reference movie so it doesn't take as
much Drive things you simply uncheck
that thing where it says make movie
self-contained you uncheck that thing
and you uncheck that recompress all
frames so by doing this it's going to be
saved into my folder actually didn't put
it onto the desktop well you didn't even
see that the the progress bar because it
went so quickly the only thing that it
did it it wrote a really tiny reference
movie even though it has a Final Cut Pro
icon
it is a QuickTime movie and if you take
a look at the files that this thing is
being referenced to it's actually
referenced to my sequence to my VB file
and to my demo we found that our
elsewhere on the hard drive and the
whole media is here everything is here
but if I take a look on the finder the
file size of this little tiny reference
movie would be comparable to the one
that we had before a little bit larger
one megabyte there's something rendered
in there so as you can see in terms of
our workflow you can save a lot of drive
space by by using this this method here
so can I switch to the slides please
so that's how you can make reference
movies on Final Cut Pro one important
thing about reference will be solid
mention it later but this works great
only when you're working on the same
machine this is the making the reference
movies out of the QuickTime Player which
does exactly the same thing
slightly different interface slightly
different wording but it does the exact
same thing now a few tips on on editing
for quicktime particularly for
deployment also the QuickTime that
you're going to be doing is going to be
for web deployment or it's going to be
for cd-rom deployment or for DVD which
means compressing the content and this
tutorial - doesn't have to do much with
QuickTime Pro as as per se but it has to
do with video digital video in general
and definitely what you want to do is is
avoid changes on the screen that's that
would be the best way of summarizing all
of that stuff that is on the on the
slide here so in two words avoid changes
if you have fast motion if you have fast
text or if you have scrolling text you
may want to avoid those same thing with
dissolves and complex or transitions
those are going to have a terrible
impact when you get to the compression
part of your of your project now another
thing also related to - editing has to
deal with previewing DV in info
resolution has anybody actually noticed
you have a DV file you open it up in the
QuickTime Player and it looks really bad
really pixelated I get this a lot of
times with my students they they see
their files particularly one with text
or the kind of the files that have text
and those are the files that I made if I
can switch back to the demo machine
please what I have here is the two DV
files that I show you earlier maybe this
one helps keeping here there we go and I
don't know if you guys can know this
particular you guys on the front here
you're going to notice that the text
looks kind of like blurry on the edges
which in this case is a DB file but
don't be scared all the media is
actually there you don't have to panic
you don't have to go and render these
humongous file with with maybe the
animation codec Tibet to get the quality
that the DB file should have in fact the
quality and all the data of your DV file
is there
what QuickTime does rather
for the sake of of of speed and playback
speed real-time playback speed is it
sacrifices some of the quality so it can
play in real-time so if you guys want to
really check out the quality of your
files and this is just for previewing
purposes what you can do is is turn on a
property of the video track so what I
did this here is I went into the movie
pulldown menu on the QuickTime Player
get movie properties and this is a
property for the video track one of the
things that you're going to see it's a
DV file
720 by 480 ntsc and this is optimises
quality and by default it has that high
quality checkbox disabled when you turn
it on now you get to see the full
quality of your video now in this case
you can actually see the inter links of
your DV file that's that's actually the
reason why I use this example here to
show how the inter links disappears or
not and take a look at the edges of all
the text I'm not sure if you guys at the
end can actually see the detail here I
have another example and it's happening
that it's doing the exact same thing
which is just showing a preview mode
without without rendering all the
quality now when you turn that on you
actually get to see even the two fields
so so don't be scared all your qualities
there now one thing about this this
checkbox in most cases when you're
previewing your content playing it back
on the QuickTime Player you don't want
to have that enabled because by enabling
that check was for you're telling
QuickTime to do is give me the data
regardless off of the framerate so by
enabling that high quality checkbox
what QuickTime is going to do is going
to try to render every single field of
every single frame and therefore taking
more CPU so so it's great just for
previewing individual images making sure
that the quality and your edges and and
your text be so sharp as you're
expecting but for playback purpose is
much better to disable it as as the
default is
and I'm just playing that will give you
them full-time rendering or full-time
playback on on QuickTime Player okay so
where am i okay now let's move on onto
the editing side of things so if I can
switch back to the slides please
for the authoring QuickTime Player is
relatively limited in terms of authoring
but you can still do some of some of the
of of the authoring and one of the
things that I personally love about the
QuickTime Player is that it could be an
excellent learning tool and excellent
learning to buy by seeing what other
people have done in the past or with
their own files so what I'm going to do
here is if I can switch back to the demo
machine I'm launching Safari and I'm
going to go and download one of the
movie trailers from the Apple site and
to tour - it really doesn't matter which
sort of matters which file I download
but I'm going to wait for it I'm not
going to play now I'm going to wait for
the whole download to happen and I'm
going to use QuickTime Player Pro just
to analyze how this movie was compressed
this way I can get a pretty good sense
of what other people have done to get
great quality video if I don't know
exactly for example what frame rate to
choose or what battery to choose or or
what window size to choose so I'm going
to use this as a as a learning tool it's
going to take a few more seconds
actually we may be able to play it so if
we can get sound for this machine of
egos ago I've become I sometimes don't
talk to another living soul some days or
trust no one nothing it's great
life wasted bull gram was the artist man
I've ever known
and I've known if do you believe me
where you going
what do you think he would do he changed
happy he won't be back
I don't know we're really very either
he's got enough his brother's manic
asking questions or overbearing
he's back Justina dumped ever
underestimate will brain is a fierce man
will go the distance
this is kill people I knew him you know
what I want to know why he died away he
died it was suicide but you're not sure
I was there anything I started odd - you
know a nose weapon what could he
possibly find out Tommy there's nothing
to tell don't lie to me he's dead does
it matter who matters
what kind of man am I looking for each
gun took like his brother
[Music]
people like us now change you're wrong
you're wrong about most things most of
the time
[Music]
someone's going to diet just have to
wrap behind either did about where you
can breathe is day it'll destroy you
what are you doing here
[Music]
okay so there you go you have a really
nice movie compressed by somebody else
and let's say that you want to work with
your own content and try to at least
learn what these guys have done with
their file so what I'm going to do here
is is save this file as a QuickTime
movie or as a source it really doesn't
matter that much up to the desktop so I
can find it and using the QuickTime
Player I'll be able to figure out a
number of information or a number of
pieces of data about this this movie
just do some housekeeping here so I'm
going to get that movie properties
window again there's information about
the annotations particularly image I'm
interested in the video track and the
soundtrack so for the video track we can
find out the format so in this case
we're learning that this guy's use a
Sorenson video 3 codec there may be
reasons why these guys chose maybe to
use Sorenson 3 instead of mpeg-4 we can
also see the size 480 by 360 so in terms
of our workflow we can actually get
those numbers down and maybe use them as
a as a tryout to see how it works out
framerate in this case the movie is 24
frames per second and if you were to
download the smaller movie usually you
would get to see something like 12
frames per second for the encoded
version a little bit of a note here that
doesn't necessarily mean that if you
shoot your DV file or your content with
video you should compress to 24 frames
in this case there compression is done
to 24 frames basically because their
source is the film that was actually
shot at 24 frames per second so if
you're going to be working with video
rather you should be working with
multiples or submultiples rather of the
original frame rate so if you were
working with video it would be 30 or 29
97 15 and so forth another thing that we
can find here this is this is most
important is the data rate this guy's
chose for for the video and in this case
they're using a data rate of 180
kilobytes per second
and now you have to be a little bit
careful with that number here because
QuickTime Player
traditionally died and has always seen
ever provided a data rate in kilobytes
per second and we're using with networks
you're actually dealing with kilobits
per second so there's there's an
Eightfold difference in here so if you
want to get that better 18 in kilobits
per second you would have to actually
multiply that by 8 which is a really
really high data rate that's why the
video looks so nice
I'm going to come back and talk about
that data rate in a minute now for the
sound side of things we can also find
out the format in this case it was
compressed with a cue design music -
that was the correct that was used they
decided to go mono for some reason I
guess to save to save bandwidth and
maybe the reason to use cue design - and
so engine 3 that these guys chose wants
to be able to be compatible with older
versions of QuickTime for example
QuickTime 5 more information regarding
moving or again the soundtrack is the
sample size which is 44 point 1
kilohertz and for some reason QuickTime
doesn't tell you anymore the sample size
most likely its 16-bit as to where the
file size or the data rate we can see
that the sound part of the movie takes
2.1 megabytes and the data rate of the
soundtrack is a 15.6 kilobytes per
second so in terms of a word plugin what
you could do is take these numbers take
them into your movies and try
compressing them with those settings and
and at least it's a great starting point
as to where what you should be doing to
tweak your your settings for compression
so if I can go back to the slides please
so this one we've done we've used the
movie properties to learn from somebody
else's work which is a great tool now
one of the things that are one of the
options that you have in the QuickTime
Player when you're compressing content
is to export the movie instead of saving
ass and there are two major differences
about the exporting and an and the save
as option in the case of exporting what
you will be doing is you would actually
be compressing the content to a specific
color that you choose or you will be
hinting a movie that has already been
compressed the hinting part is is for
for a QuickTime streaming server but for
the most part when you're exporting the
important thing is that your
recompressing the content so watch out
for that when you go file export you're
actually recompressing another thing
that you could do with a regular with
the export process you can resize your
content to match some other window size
the same thing is applying a filter and
the important thing here is that it
generates new media meaning it actually
goes through the through a process a
compression process most more
specifically so if I can go back to them
to the switch to the demo machine clicks
what I have here again is the series of
frames that I had made before and I'm
going to go through the exporting
process and particular I'm going to make
an emphasis on the data rate trying to
explain that a little bit so let's say
that I want to compress this movie that
I want to make this movie that right now
references all of my single frames let's
say that I want to make a web version of
this and target an audience that is
maybe running at 200 kilobits per second
actually I should know what batteries
I'm going to be targeting let's say that
we rather going to target somebody that
it's running on a 350 kilo bit per
second bandwidth connection so I'm going
to save this onto the desktop and I'm
going to call it web movie
I'm exporting as a movie to QuickTime
moving now in this case I went to the
file export option which means that I'm
going to recompress I'm going to make
new media out of this but clicking on
the options button I can choose the
different settings and let me change the
size first so let's say that we're
targeting three hundred and 50 kilobit
per second audience somebody that would
be on a fairly good ADSL connection so
I'm going to change the size of this
humongous movie to something more
manageable like 256 by 192 so that's
going to be a relatively small size but
should yield really nice quality for for
a three hundred and fifty kilo bit per
second battery now I'm going to change
the settings for the video and there are
a ton of codecs that are available for
you depending on what you want to do so
for deployment most of the times you
would want to focus on either Sorenson 3
Pro if you do have a pro version and
another great alternative is to use
mpeg-4 so I'm going to use mpeg-4 for
the time being
now frames per second in this case my
framerate I don't know if you remember
but my frame rate was actually 6 frames
per second so I'm going to leave it at
best and what best does it actually
leaves the original frame of the movie
as is so it'll maintain the original
frame rate if you had if my source was
actually video it would be kept at the
original 2997 now these two options down
here are usually a point of confusion
now who doesn't know what that keyframe
every frames mean everybody knows okay a
few of you guys don't know
well that keyframe every 24 frames
actually has to do with with the codec
what the codec does is it tries to
analyze one frame and then the
consequent the following frames so if
there are no changes in the following
frame
all right if there are a few changes in
the following frames what the codec does
just saves those changes without having
to save the full frame so keyframe every
whatever number what is that what it
does is it actually refreshes that
original frame of video so it has a new
starting point for comparison of the
following frames as a rule of thumb
every every 10 seconds is is perfectly
fine so if I'm running at 60 frames per
second and I want to keep it at every 10
seconds I would want to enter in this
particular Kings I want to keyframe
every 60 frames now this is this is this
is it this is where where the rubber
meets the road as they say and it has to
do with the calculation of the data rate
for the video so I'm going to switch
over to the slide please and do a little
bit of an explanation here so here we go
it's a little bit of math it's really
basic matter don't worry we say that we
wanted to target a data rate of 350 kilo
bits per second so that means that we're
going to have audio and video that when
you add them up each that up to about
350 kilo bits per second now in this
case III split it up in 310 kilobits per
second for the video and about 40 kilo
bits per second for the audio now in
this case I'm kind of like maybe what I
should do is I should I should open up a
DB movie instead of all of the slides
that I have here because they don't have
any sound actually I don't have anything
with sound but anyway so in a typical
situation I'm dividing here 310 kilobits
per second for the video and 40 kilo
bits per second for the audio so when
you add them up it goes to 350 now the
problem is that the QuickTime interface
here where it says limited data rate it
says limit data rate to whatever
kilobytes per second but we were doing
our calculations in kilobits per second
so the secret here is
to divide the 310 kilo the kilo bits per
second that we had or that we want to
target if we divide that by eight that
gives us thirty eight point seventy five
kilo bits per second so that's the
number that we have to enter in the
quicktime player user interface if we
were to enter three ten it would
actually give us a movie eight times as
large as what we would be expecting
which is not what we want so this is a
typical typical point of confusion I've
seen throughout the years from from my
students they enter the 310 and boom the
movie looks amazing definitely because
you have an eight times the battery that
you're expecting but the father is just
undeliverable over the web so if I could
switch back to the to the computer here
what I would be entering in this case it
would be that thirty eight point seventy
five kilobytes per second that should
match up to to the 310 kilobits per
second so so that's a very important
process that or not process but step
that I definitely wanted to mention when
delivering the content over the web now
in this case I don't have any sound but
if I was to use the let me actually try
to get a movie that does have sound to
show you the interface and I think this
one does have sound or if he has a
soundtrack even though he has no sound
file export onto the desktop options we
said mpeg-4 now this would definitely
relate to this life that I had before I
said soft multiple of the original frame
rate so I'm going to drop it down to 15
frames per second rule of thumb off of a
keyframe every 10 seconds that will be
at around 150 and the battery that we
had specified was 38 point 75 kilobytes
per second
now for the sound side of things I'm
going to use mpeg-4 sound which is
top-notch particularly at lower data
rates so where am I missing here we go
Apple mpeg-4 audio and this is kind of
weird because the video did give me the
option for the data rate in kilo bytes
per second but when you get into the
audio codec in this particular case and
I think it actually most of the audio
codecs would actually allow you to enter
the the battery this is what is bitrate
in kilo bits per second so QuickTime
Player is a little bit confusing in this
case by giving you one battery or one
one unit in one case and another unit in
another case so so watch out for that
now from the site that I had before I
said that the audio would take about or
we take 40 kilo bits per second plus the
other three ten from the video to add up
for the three ten 350 so I'm selecting
40 kilobits per second and what the
bitrate really means it means how much
data is going to be taken to store the
sound which is very different to the
sample rate the sample rate has to do
for those audio guys too how often is
the computer actually storing a sample
from from the original file and one of
the things that the QuickTime Player
does in this case it actually shows you
involved what would be the optimum
sample size or sample rate for that
particular bitrate that you selected so
in this case it's suggesting that I
entered 20 200 50 kilohertz for my 40
kilo bits per second so I'm only back
now this is another somebody was asking
about this the other thing is what the
hell does good better and best mean
anyone test well what this means is and
this is just for the mpeg-4 audio codec
here in the QuickTime Player what it
does it makes a trade-off between speed
against quality so if you're in a rush
go and select good but most of it
your compression video you're not so
much in a rush you definitely want to
leave the video or the quick or the
computer to do the best the best work
for you so selecting best what it does
it takes a little bit of longer but it
does better or a best as it says there a
process when it does the compression of
the sound so there we go now this is
also kind of confusing because I have a
sample rate over here and I also had
another sample rate over here so that's
somewhat confusing so I'm matching the
making sure that they do match and I'm
gonna let go so I'm going to compress
this movie won't take that long on the
desktop just a few seconds long but what
I want to see is if my data rate whoops
was at one yeah that was the one I
forgot to change the size remember
that's why it looks so bad but the file
size wise it should be my 350 kilo bits
per second that I was expecting so if I
get the movie properties appropriately
for the whole movie should be the for
the full size it's actually lower
let me get the calculator just to
actually do it right and we have the
36.1 kilobytes per second bytes per
second right to get that into kilobits
per second we would need to multiply
that by 8 and in this case it's 288
kilobits per second so the movie itself
ended up being somewhat lower from what
I was expecting so so that's definitely
good because you wouldn't be won't it
would definitely match the audience the
target data rate of the audience that I
was looking for and and it would not
take that much space on my hard drive
now mind you that this is a demo with a
really short movie so that's why the
numbers are are relatively off there's
no audio
that's true there was there's no audio
there well there is an audio track but
but it's silent which is weird
that's that that's another point of a
white so small thanks a lot
now another thing is in terms of the
other of the workflow
a huge element is Apple script and I
really hope that you guys had gone to
the AppleScript session that was earlier
today because Apple script is most
important especially if you're an Apple
script you can do amazing stuff with a
QuickTime Player so if I can switch back
to the slides really quickly please
in this case Apple provides a series or
a collection of Apple scripts already
written which are great surprisingly
enough they had not updated them since
QuickTime 5 but nevertheless they are
very much useful today so that's the URL
where you can get them from the Apple
site just go Apple comm / Apple script /
QuickTime and you'll be able to download
this really really powerful collection
of scripts so what this scripts do is
they are divided in a number of files
one of some of them which do run
directly off the QuickTime Player and
some other that some others that they
run as as as applets so if I can switch
back to them to the demo machine please
thank you very much now in this case I
downloaded earlier the Apple scripts on
the Apple site and another thing that I
did is in the Apple script folder of the
Applications folder on your Macintosh
there is this thing that says install
script menu when you run that little
tiny app it provides you with this
little tiny AppleScript pulldown menu
that now appears throughout the OS so
let's see let me what am I going to do
here
we try to see this as a small movie that
I had done earlier or not come on come
on don't crash what I want to do is I
want to apply a couple of Apple scripts
that have already pre have already been
pre-written for me or for us actually
okay this thing is not responding so let
me try that again
[Music]
okay hopefully this is going to work
doesn't seem
a my Kherson turn into a beach ball now
go figure and the machine is somewhat
sluggish anyway one of the scripts that
has been or that it has been provided
for for you is this is another question
that I had the other day at the lab if
somebody was asking how to make a movie
safe disable so that when you put it on
your website people view it but they
don't save it onto their hard drive but
that's a feature that QuickTime Pro
offerings and there are a number of ways
that you can get access to that little
flag one of them is using live stage pro
another one is if you're running always
9:00 you can do it with a little free
app from from Apple called plug-in
helper or you can also do it with Apple
script which is what I'm going to try to
do here but somehow this thing is not
working for me so let me try that again
okay I'm not going to compress the movie
what I was going to do is I was going to
compress the movie or use the compressed
version and and apply my Apple script
but I can apply my Apple script also to
this movie so let's do two more things
apart from making it safe disable I want
to make it so that when it plays it goes
full screen and another thing is that
when it finishes playing it actually
closes down so there's no chance that
are giving relatively little chance for
the user to to save my movie onto their
hard drive so now that I have installed
the AppleScript I'm extensions here I
have these options as a QuickTime Player
script and some of them they are
organized by the type of functionality
that you want to do so in this case I
think it's under properties autoplay is
one of them so I'm going to change the
autoplay of this movie
by default any QuickTime movie set by
off or set to off so I'm going to change
that to on so as one of the movie opens
you should start playing automatically
ok so that's actually being applied to
my movie we said that we wanted to take
it fullscreen as soon as it started as
soon as it launched
so that would be I think that's another
property off of the movie oops
robberies and at the presentation mode
normal eluded normal okay prop rings
presentation sighs all right that fits
the screen so I want to go fullscreen
okay so that sets it to go fullscreen
and the last thing that I'm going to do
is I'm gonna save disable and I think
that's another property here right or we
also said that we're going to do auto
closed when done and I don't see that
the save disabled is dance and auto
close to true
oh boy where was that option for safe
disable actually I can do that from the
droplet that is over here in the apple
scripts that were downloaded Apple
scripts droplets media type playback so
as you can see some of the options that
I actually did in the player I can
actually change them as I drop it so I
can grab a series of movies not only the
one that I have in the foreground and
and dump them on to my onto the droplets
that the Apple has created here
save as uneditable so that's the one so
I'm gonna save this movie now and then
dumped it into my or into the droplet to
make it safe disabled save all those
those changes so that was the one on the
desktop so by dragging it on top of the
applet now you should make it say the
table so it's warning you once you do
that you won't be able to recover your
movie you won't be able to edit it you
won't be able to extract the video track
or anything else let's go so there you
go
so now if I open the movie you should go
fullscreen it should play the whole
thing and at the end you should quit OOP
good not well it should be safe disabled
now yeah I cannot change it anymore I
would have to go back to the original
but in this case I want to see if it
gives me an error it should return an
error saying that I cannot save it there
you go
so at least he gave me that error so
that means that I cannot save it even if
I put this movie in a web server or on a
play on on the plug-in on the QuickTime
plug-in you would not give me that
option that that I had originally asked
as save disabled so unfortunately the
other scripts were not applied somehow
and now that it's been saved disabled I
cannot apply those scripts anyway it
won't be able to save them but but in
this case the point that I'm trying to
make here is is that the Apple script
that an apple provides are amazing its
animation collection I don't know if you
guys were were able to see the different
types of Apple scripts as I was dragging
or as I was looking for the one on my
hard drive but there's a ton of Apple
scripts that have been pre-written for
you and the great thing about these
Apple scripts is that you can still go
and open them and edit them or learn
from them if if you if you definitely
want to try that out personally I'm not
an Apple script guy is Apple script is
so easy that I don't understand it for
some reason it's supposed to be too
close to English but I don't know if my
accent is the one that doesn't work here
but nevertheless the Apple scripts that
they have been pre-written written by it
by by Apple are perfect okay moving on
can I switch to the slides please
so that was Apple script now in terms of
authoring mixing media types usually is
a must when working with QuickTime and
we're working with QuickTime Pro now
most of the times when you would be
doing advanced authoring you would be
using some other applications like live
stage Pro or I shell or some other
applications for your for your authoring
but in this case what I'm going to do is
I'm going to make what I have is I have
a QuickTime VR movie all of the stuff
that we've seen before was video and
sound but in this case I have a
QuickTime VR movie and I've made this
little
flash animation that looks kind of like
a target that just goes into the center
so if I can switch back to the demo
machine thank you very much this is what
I've got I've got two movies here one of
them is a flash track it's really tiny
if we take a look at the file size on
this document
it's just 324 bytes for the SWF so this
is the typical flash fife I think or
flash for file doesn't do anything it
just has a great background and a little
ball that goes into the center and on
the other hand I have this other
QuickTime VR movie where I want to add
this flash animation on top of the
QuickTime VR and always stay there so
has anybody ever done something like
this plus in adding flash to a QuickTime
VR with a QuickTime Player anybody great
perfect so this is what you need to do
the logic is is this the logic is to
bring the flash into the clipboard then
paste it on top of everything else onto
the QuickTime VR now if I wanted to do
that without changing the QuickTime VR
right now I'm on the flash so I would go
file AI mean edit copy so that brings it
into the clipboard and if I wanted to
just paste there or add it on top of the
VR QuickTime does not allow me QuickTime
VR is actually all disabled and the
reason for that is because the to be
able to have the Edit pulldown menu you
actually have to have a typical
QuickTime controller down there you have
to have a timeline which of course
QuickTime VR don't have QuickTime vrs
don't have any timeline date there they
render on the fly so the secret is to
actually change the controller here one
of the properties of alpha movie is the
controller that it uses so I'm getting
the movie problems for the QuickTime VR
and one of the properties for the movie
itself is the type of controller so I'm
going to go to the movie controller and
I don't know if you noticed but the
QuickTime VR controller now becomes a
linear video controller if you play it
nothing happens it's just whatever it's
seeing at that moment but now I can add
on
of this my flash so first of all I
wanted to add it on top of everything so
I'm going to select the whole timeline
select all you see that the whole gray
timeline gets selected now I want to add
scaled which means whatever it's in the
clipboard make it match my timeline add
scaled right now we have the flash on
top of everything else one of the great
features about flash is that by default
it contains an alpha Channel so the gray
background that's just a background in
my flash document but I can actually
turn off that that background by
applying its own alpha Channel
so I'm switching to the properties of
the flash track over here and one of the
properties is the graphics mode and by
the way to be able to change this
properties for the flash track I still
have to have the QuickTime control or
the movie controller active so and as
you can see there's a straight alpha
that we can take advantage of the Alpha
check the Alpha track in the alpha
channel sorry on the flash track on the
SWF on the Swift file and two more
things that we need to do more one of
them is if I was to go back and change
the controller back to the QuickTime VR
I would still not be able to play it
back or have the QuickTime VR controller
or controls as you can see I'm clicking
and I'm dragging and nothing's happening
and the reason for that is because the
flash track is actually capturing the
click so let me see if I can change that
flash I'm going as another property for
the flash track it's the only one that
says properties here it says mouse
capture enabled if I disable that the
clinic is going to go through the flash
track into my QuickTime vr so now I have
a target me now don't you
the great thing about this whole idea is
that because it's a flash track on top
of the VR the VR is actually a really
high resolution I was using the free
application that came with my Canon
camera to stitch this VR but if I go
full size or even full screen because
the flash is it's a vector based on you
mentioned it scales beautifully and the
VR being high quality it still looks
quite nice and nevermind the bottom so
as you can see in this case we have the
flash track on top of the QuickTime VR
track something that you should not do
is do this on a g4 because my VR is too
large and I'm applying this alpha
channel which adds a lot of CPU so
that's what I love about this g5 and
that's why I wanted to use this g5 to
show this demo here but nevertheless
when a PC would actually be so much
smoother than been on the mattress
because of the Alpha Channel so I hope
that you really liked that one I
personally loved that that example of
just mixing the VR with with the flash
so I've got just a few more minutes to
show something else and if I can switch
back to the slides blinks in this case
I'm talking about save as when you go
and save as a movie you have the
different options of faster compress
movie Heather and and what this does
when you go and save as what it does it
just copies the media of the existing
file into into a new file now there are
15 more minutes so I still have 15 more
minutes right Amy 10 minutes okay so in
10 minutes what I want to do is is the
following I want to talk about
deployment so far I haven't been able to
get to the deployment even though it's
most important and in this case I'm
going to add myself with a few more
applications and this is what I want to
do you guys have seen on the Apple site
that when you go to a movie or in the
movie trailer site depending on the
bandwidth that you've selected for your
for your particular machine it would
give you a small movie or a large
- movie well one of the things that you
could do is use those reference movies
to deploy in different languages so what
I want to do is I have two movies here
one in English and one in Spanish it's
the same QuickTime VR that I've shown
you earlier but with text in English and
in Spanish and what I want to do is I
want to embed these movies on an HTML
page and depending on the language of
the user I want either of the movies to
two to playback so I'm going to do this
really quickly
first off I'm show you this this slide
here the applications that I'm going to
use is this application called make ref
movie from Apple which is available on
the free tools and tips of the QuickTime
site I'm going to use the QuickTime
Player to create a dummy movie and I'm
going to use this other application
called page out X from QT Bridge to
write the HTML for me has anybody ever
useful or rather has anybody not seen
that application before okay you guys
are going to love it because it writes
HTML no problem much better than than
what you would be able to do with other
applications okay so I'm going to start
from from the bottom of my of my diagram
back to the top where I have the two
movies this is the one in English and as
you can see it just has text in English
at the top and what I did is I I brought
in a flash track and I've got a Spanish
version so so this one should be
selected either or depending on the
user's language so the first thing that
I'm going to do is that reference movie
and the reference movie is going to
select either or depending on on the
language of the user and that's where I
use the application called make ref
movie so when you watch make ref movie
it asks you to save a movie in this case
is it's a brand new movie that I'm going
to create is going to contain no media I
didn't and it's going to refer to either
of the other two movies depending on the
language of the user
and I'm going to call that how do I call
it I call it cutie cutie source on my
diagram cutie source dot a movie and
this movie is going to refer to a to vis
so I'm going to drag both the eyes the
one in Spanish and the one in English
and I'm just going to drop them into the
user interface and they appear here now
this application allows you to select
the type of or one of the movies either
of the movies depending on a bunch of
criteria and usually people use the
battery for the bandwidth available to
the user in this case I'm actually going
to use language so this is the one in
Spanish you can see the name over here
this is the Spanish movie so I'm going
to select this movie only if the user
has a Spanish OS and I'm going to select
the English version I could actually
leave it unspecified pretty much just in
any other kings and that's pretty much
it we don't have to do anything else by
setting those those preferences we
should get either of the movies
depending on the user settings so I'm
going to quit this application save the
changes and it should have made the
reference movie now this reference will
be fine if I launch it right now it
gives me the English version but if I
change the preferences I don't know if I
can do that without an admin password if
I change the OS to Spanish up at the
very top you just got a love always then
let me get a quick QuickTime Player and
launch it a second time now it should be
in Spanish although this thing is not
behaving properly
click templates in English for some
bizarre reason but as you can see now my
movie opens up in Spanish because I
change my settings to Spanish so I've
got that reference movie now going if I
can go back to the slides please
so I've got the Spanish the english
movie and the QT source movie that I've
made now what I need to do is I need to
make a dummy movie that when the user
clicks on that movie
then it launches either the English or
the Spanish movie which which by the
fact on that movie is going to be the
one embedded into the QuickTime rather
into the HTML document so what I've done
here before is I've made a thank you
very much what I've done here before is
I've made a big file of of the kitchen
there I'm not going to open it in
preview rather I'm going to drag and
drop it onto the QuickTime Player to
open up the pic file in the QuickTime
Player now for the embedding what I want
is the QuickTime plug-in to initialize
therefore what I need to embed is going
to be a QuickTime movie so right now
it's a big file but if you go and save
as it wraps it around it wraps the big
file around the dot MOV extension so it
actually turns it into a QuickTime movie
that contains a pic file I should be
putting it into my folder that contains
all of the other files and I'm going to
call this file my source this is the one
I was going to be embedded in the source
tag of my HTML there we go
so this is going to be what it's called
a poster movie this is the one that is
actually going to be embedded into the
HTML the user when they click that
poster movie in effect is going to call
the source movie and and that one is
actually going to check if it's in
English or in Spanish so we've got all
the media from from
my diagram ready to go the only thing
that I need to finish up is the HTML and
this is where page art comes to claims
and what this application does it write
the object and the embed tag for you and
this guy said Qt bridge are always on
top of QuickTime way faster and way
better than than what you would find in
[Music]
applications like Dreamweaver that's
supposed to have an embed and an object
tag for a QuickTime which they take
forever to update these guys on the
other hand are are always on the ball so
I'm gonna embed the source movie I'm
just going to drag and drop it into my
picture application as you can see gives
me the name it figures out the height in
the width and let's let's set all all
the properties so what we want is when
you click on this to actually have an H
ref so when you click on the movie it
should it should actually target the
reference movie that it's going to
figure out if it's in English and
Spanish just going to paste the name
over there and you could potentially Act
you could potentially go to the
QuickTime Player let's go to the
QuickTime playing so it actually can go
fullscreen or the user can take it
fullscreen and let me get rid of the
controller so you will show the code
there's all the HTML for the object and
the embed tag for that particular movie
that we've made so I'm just going to
copy that stuff copy I've already made a
an index page that doesn't contain
anything let me just open up text a bit
and hopefully texture it here we go
oh wow there's nothing there it has to
do with the preferences I think clean
text okay let me try that again
okay that's what happens when you depend
on text of it and not BBEdit for your
the other preference which one is the
other preference yeah you know
everything thank you very much that's a
good thing of having a really live
audience there we go so we have all the
HTML that I was expecting so I've got I
just have the header there and now you
should be able just to paste my whoa
relatively large code that contains
everything else in there and as you can
see it already wrote the class ID for
the ActiveX control
II wrote the source the height the width
and the embed tag for the whole thing
all over again safe so when you launch
that you click on it it fears out that I
have my computer in Spanish and it gives
me the Spanish version on the other hand
if I change the settings of the computer
to English which I should when I click
on that I'm expecting to see the English
version still the Spanish version let me
quit the player let me quit this thing
too
and in keys with an English version of
the VR and that pretty much concludes my
presentation
thanks Francesco so one can go to the
slide speaks about quarter to five there
are buses coming for the campus bash
tonight which you'll meet downstairs I
you don't have to rush to get down there
so if you have questions for Francesco
what we can do is we can take them off
stage maybe out in the hallway take a
few and then you guys can head down have
fun tonight down in Cupertino
thanks again francesco thank you very
much
[Applause]